netxmms-1.0.0


netxmms is a server which allows you to remotely control any XMMS
[www.xmms.org] based media player (this includes Beep Media Player
[www.beep-media-player.org] and Audacious [www.audacious-media-player.org].
Possibly some other forks, too).

Running the server is as simple as:
$ netxmms [port]
netxmms defaults to port 42561, but you can change that by passing an
additional argument.

netxmms is complimented by clients which (should) run on other machines over a
network, normally over a LAN (although any network connection is fine). netxmms
(1.0.0) provides the following functionality to clients:
    * Forward/Next
    * Pause
    * Play
    * Stop
    * Volume control
All clients and versions of netxmms are (or at least should be) backwards
compatible. That is, any client will work with any server (as of this version,
the server does not send any information and only receives it; this may be
subject to change but will not break compatibility should it be implemented).

Notes:
    * Although netxmms runs on a non-standard port which is usually not
      forwarded, that does not mean you should forward it. Due to there being
      no authentication (yet), forwarding the port would mean anybody can
      connect to your netxmms server. Although it poses no security risk at
      all, it would be best to not forward at all. Under the unlikely (and
      strange) circumstance that you want to connect over a WAN (for example,
      the Internet), change the running port to something else at least. A
      port-scan would probably reveal the port either way, but there is no
      security risk and it shouldn't really concern you. Most of the time you
      will probably be connecting over a LAN however, in which case you
      shouldn't forward it.
    * At the moment netxmms is not a plugin to XMMS (or forks). This might
      change, but at the moment it means it does not send information to the
      client and uses the `XMMS remote' interface instead (which means it can
      not have callbacks for track-change or volume-change and such).
    * netxmms will only output to stdout if an error occurs. This usually
      results in the server terminating with an exit status of 1, but may not
      exit on some failed calls to close(). If XMMS (or a fork with XMMS remote
      interface) is not running, netxmms will output "XMMS remote not running"
      on stdout and terminate with an exit status of 0. If you don't want any
      output at all, simply redirect stdout to /dev/null.
